14th August 2019 In a night celebrating Excellence in Engineering hosted by Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA) and sponsored by Aon South Africa, leaders in the Built Environment gathered at the Vodacom Dome in Midrand to honour 25 years of democracy and celebrate the winners of the 2019 CESA Aon Engineering Excellence Awards – reshaping our future together.  “Given the pivotal role that infrastructure development plays in the South African economy in achieving the goals of the National Development Plan and Vision 2030, as stated in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s recent State of the Nation Address (SONA) these awards highlight the role that Consulting Engineers and their Clients play in providing Excellence in Engineering for economic development and job creation,” states CESA CEO, Chris Campbell. “An enormous responsibility lies upon your shoulders as the consulting engineers in South Africa, but by the same token, to deliver on these responsibilities, consulting engineers have to operate in a secure, risk-managed environment.   It’s our role at Aon South Africa to facilitate that environment, and to ensure that you have a professional and qualified team on your side, every step of the way,” says Terence Williams, CEO of Aon South Africa. Awards were handed out in the following categories: Lifetime Industry Achievement Award; Young Engineer of the Year; Engineering Excellence for projects with a value of less than R50million; projects between R50million and R250million and for projects with a value of over R250million; Roads and Bridges Projects; Best International Project; Visionary Client of the Year; Small Company of the Year; Mentor of the Year; Business Excellence; Mentoring Company of the Year; Publisher of the Year; Job Shadow Initiative; and Branch of the Year. Winners: The CESA Lifetime Industry Achievement Award was presented to Graham Burrows, a renowned specialist in water and sewer pump design and analysis, for his significant contribution to the upliftment of many lives, especially in rural communities. In order to promote the Consulting Engineering industry to young professionals, CESA recognises the contribution young engineers make to the industry and to the future of the profession. The winner is afforded an opportunity to attend the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) Infrastructure Conference. Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) sponsored the Young Engineer of the Year Award. The winner in the category of Young Engineer of the Year is Jeshika Ramchund with Dr Tony Igboamalu receiving a commendation. The category for Engineering Excellence with a value greater than R250 million was won by Aecom for Growthpoint New Lakeside Office in Centurion with Aurecon receiving a commendation for Discovery Place, Sandton for Discovery in Joint Venture with Growthpoint Properties and Zenprop Property Holdings. The category for Engineering Excellence with a value between R50 million and R250 million was won by Aurecon for Docklands Apartments, Cape Town for FWJK Developments. Commendations were awarded to Hatch for Rosslyn Brewery Co-Generation Plant in Pretoria for AB-INBEV; and JG Afrika for Construction of a new mechanised stercus facility in Matroosfontein for the City of Cape Town. The category for Engineering Excellence with a value less than R50 million, was won by Aurecon for the Leliefontein Pump-as-Turbine Station for Drakenstein Municipality in the Western Cape. The commendation went to Royal HaskoningDHV-SFC Engineers-Ndizani Civil Works JV for the Sani Pass Phase 2A Structures on the Southern Drakensberg for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport. In the category of Best International Project, Knight Piésold Consulting was announced the winner  for the Azambi Hydropower Project in the DRC for Kibali Gold Mine, a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation. The commendation went to SMEC for Construction of Main Road 118 for the Namibian Roads Authority. Due the large number of Roads and Bridges project entries this year a special category was created. The winner in this category was SMEC for the Mount Edgecombe Interchange on the N2, Section 26 for The South African National Roads Agency (SANRAL). Royal HaskoningDHV was awarded a commendation for Cornubia Boulevard Bridge over the N2 for eThekwini Municipality. Knight Piésold Consulting won the Mentoring Company of the Year with BVi Consulting Engineers winning the Business Excellence category and ADA Consulting Engineers recognized as Small Company of the Year. In an effort to promote mentorship of young engineers CESA recognises the contribution Mentors make to the industry and the future of the profession.  Kim Timm, from Aecom is the Mentor of the Year. Black Mountain Mining, a subsidiary of Vedanta Zinc International was awarded Visionary Client of the Year. In recognition of the role that the media plays in the industry, Creamer Media received recognition for Publishing Excellence: Trade Publications and Independent Media publishers of Business Report received recognition for Publishing Excellence: Daily Newspapers. Mariswe was announced as the winner of the CESA Job Shadow Initiative with Knight Piésold as the 1st runner up and both Lekwa Consulting Engineers and Royal HaskoningDHV as 2nd runners up. CESA's Western Cape Branch was named winner of the Branch of the Year Award.