The National Home Builders Registration Council (NHBRC) has deregistered seventeen (17) contractors and builders from its database of approved homebuilders following the outcome of the disciplinary hearing processes.  The names of these contractors have also been published on the Government Gazette of 15 March 2019. The offences committed by these builders/contractors included failure to enrol or register new homes, failure to comply with the code of conduct and the building standards. “The NHBRC will continue to ensure that building standards are upheld and consumers are protected from poorly constructed buildings through its stringent requirements and regular inspections of all NHBRC registered home building projects,” said NHBRC’s CEO Mr Mziwonke Dlabantu. For the period 2016/2017 to 2018/2019 financial years, the NHBRC suspended 482 home builders who contravened the Act and prosecuted 1 482 home builders for various contraventions including shoddy workmanship, failure to enrol new homes and contravening the Code of Conduct for home builders. Further, NHBRC has also opened 357 criminal cases against home builders who have failed to register and to enrol new homes as per the Act. In this regard, the NHBRC is collaborating with the National Prosecuting Authority and the South African Police Services (“SAPS”) in order to ensure that all the criminal cases opened are successfully prosecuted. Home builders who fail to fix the non-compliances issued by NHBRC home inspectors within the required period get suspended pending prosecution by the NHBRC Disciplinary Committee (“the DC”).  These DC’s are adjudicated by external and independent Chairpersons. During the period of suspension, the home builder is not allowed to build any homes in the Republic. Should the home builder be found guilty following a DC process, the following penalties may be imposed by the DC: (a)        A fine not exceeding R25 000 per count / contravention; (b)        A warning; or (c)        Withdrawal of registration. Dlabantu implored housing consumers to support the organisation’s efforts in this regard by ensuring that they appoint NHBRC registered builders/sub-contractors and ensure the enrolment of homes before commencing with construction of their homes. Housing consumers and/or homeowners and buyers must exercise caution when dealing with contractors/ developers/builders by ensuring that they verify their registration with the NHBRC in the first instance.  A list of approved homebuilders is available on our website and housing consumers must choose potential contractors from this approved list so that they are protected in terms of the Housing Consumers Protection Measures Act. “The NHBRC is committed to ethical leadership in the home building sector and all role players are implored to report all incidences of ethical transgressions to our independently managed ethical hotline on 0800 203 698 etc.” concluded Dlabantu.