 So why are we seeing increasing delays, claims and even major players facing financial strain on the back of a once-in-a-generation opportunity?In episode 1 of leading global engineering and infrastructure advisory company Aurecon’s Collaboration and Trust video series launched today, Managing Director, Infrastructure Ben Stapleton sits down with construction disputes Partner Ben Davidson from Corrs Chambers Westgarth to discuss just why it is that an industry in a period of unprecedented activity is struggling to capitalise on this demand. “Governance, project leadership and building trust at speed is critical to project outcomes,” Aurecon’s Ben Stapleton said.“With multiple multi-billion-dollar projects coming to market, collaboration between all stakeholders, from project owners to contractors and consultants is fundamental to getting the right outcomes from the start.”Ben Stapleton is an expert in major, multi-faceted infrastructure projects, including changing funding mechanisms and delivery models and has advised on these issues on projects across the world. His passion lies in improving collaboration and increasing trust and he sees these as the essential ingredients to improved outcomes for the community and for those involved in bringing projects to life. Throughout 2019, Aurecon will bring you a series of in-depth interviews exploring the concept of collaboration and trust and how these attributes and characteristics have the power to redefine project outcomes. Would the result be different if we just let go of our commercial, political and social differences and worked together as one team? These discussions from leading experts in the field will help us find out. In the interview with Corrs Chambers Westgarth’s Ben Davidson, they look at some of the tools to increase collaboration and trust, including the role of technology. “As a litigator and disputes lawyer I can tell you that trust is the fundamental piece of the model that makes or breaks a project,” Ben Davidson said. Ben Davidson looked to the use of new digital tools as a way forward, particularly as Building Information Modelling (BIM) becomes mandated on projects and creates opportunities to increase the sharing of project information. “To move from paper worksheets to actually systematise market information about what’s happening on a project in real-time, allows you to have a much more collaborative view of the issues and the way forward to understand and quickly assess litigation and project risks,” Ben Davidson said. “I think technology is actually going to allow much better control of a project but also much better retrospective review both by principal and contractor to understand the best path forward.”