Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) has concluded an agreement with Bidfreight Port Operations (Pty) Ltd  for the design, development, financing, construction, operation, maintenance and transfer of a Multi-Purpose Terminal at Sheds 10 and 11 in the Port of Port Elizabeth, following an open tender process.  “We are extremely excited that the agreement with BPO has been concluded and that we can welcome a world-class independent operator to the Port of Port Elizabeth,” said Nozipho Mdawe, Chief Operating Officer of TNPA. She added that the development would optimise the use of Sheds 10 and 11, and give the port an edge in the competition for import and export cargo for Southern Africa.”  Bidfreight Port Operations (Pty) Ltd was formed in 2004 and is one of the largest providers of in-port logistics in South Africa with operations in all of the country’s commercial ports. It has established an enviable reputation for its world-class expertise in stevedoring, transport, agency clearing and forwarding, as well as warehousing services. BPO is a fully empowered Black Empowerment entity with a level 2 rating. “We are an independent operator with a reputation built on delivering holistic solutions that ensure the movement and storage of client goods is managed professionally and timeously. We continually strive to meet and surpass the values encompassed in our motto: In place. On Time,” said Jannie Roux, BPO’s Managing Director.  Although the official ceremony took place today, the agreement was concluded towards the end of last year. The refurbishment of Sheds 10 and 11 commenced in November 2018 and the facility is expected to be fully operational by September 2019.  With the overall multi-purpose cargo demand projections for South Africa, and the much required undercover storage infrastructure close to the quayside to support this, the facility will play a vital role in growing the volume of multi-purpose cargo passing through the Port of Port Elizabeth, boosting the economy of the region. Socio-economic benefits of the development include: